
NetBeans

NetBeans is the most intuitive and easy to use IDE.  Unfortunately, since it became
an Apache project, it has been going through a huge number of changes.  As of version
12.5, it wasn't able to debug Groovy code.  It is our hope that this can be rectified soon.

Some older comments:

NetBeans 11.2 did not work correctly with tomcat, however, the nightly build as of February
28, 2020 did. So, we expect that any version after 11.2 should work. This is how we
configured the IDE. In all cases, when not specified otherwise, leave the defaults.
1. Download dependencies. Even though NetBeans will be used to build, debug, and
maintain the system, the Kiss build system (bld ) should initially be used to install the
dependencies. And even before that, the build system itself must be built. All this can
be accomplished with the following commands:
    a. ./build-builder
    b. ./bld libs
2. Install tomcat. You must install a copy of the tomcat server. You can do this by either
installing it in a typical way from the Apache Tomcat site, or you can execute the
following bld command to create a local tomcat installation for you:
    a. ./bld setupTomcat
    If bld is used, it will setup tomcat in a directory named tomcat under the root of the
    Kiss installation.
3. Configure tomcat. From within NetBeans, do the following:
    a. Select Tools and then Servers
    b. Click Add Server..., and then select Apache Tomcat or TomEEChapter 2: System Setup
    c. Select the server location. Catalina Base should be blank.
    d. Set both the Username and Password to admin, and then click Finish
4. Import the Project through the IDE as follows:
    a. Select File and then New Project
    b. Select Java Web under Java with Ant, and then select Web Application with Ex-isting Sources on the right, and then click Next
    c. Under Location select the root of the Kiss system. The remaining defaults on that
       tab are fine. Click Next.
    d. On the Server and Settings tab, be sure to select the appropriate tomcat server.
    e. The following should be set on the Existing Sources and Libraries page:
        A. Set the Web Pages Folder by selecting the src/main/webapp directory.
        B. Set the WEB-INF Content by selecting the src/main/java directory.
        C. Set the Libraries Folder by selecting the libs folder under the Kiss root.
        D. Remove what is in the Sources Package Folders section and add the two paths
           src/main/application and src/main/java, and then click Finish.
5. Set the source folder names by:
    a. Right-click on the root of the project in the Projects pane and select Properties.
    b. On the Sources page, you will see two labels in the Source Package Folders section
       that we need to change. Change the application one to Application and the second
       to Kiss Core.
    c. Click OK

After this configuration is performed, you can use the IDE’s native build and debug
processes for development. However, bld should still be used to produce the production
WAR file.
